- [Narrator] The Tools Plugins tend to be
the most configuration-heavy
of all of your plugins.
And these are the ones that I tend to reference
the Apache site more often than anything else.
Once again, we're going to jump
back into our browser
and take a look at our Plugins page
at maven.apache.org/plugins.
We're going to go ahead and scroll down here
to the Tools section.
And the first one that we're going to talk about
is the Dependency Plugin.
And this is by far the most used
of all the plugins in the Apache world.
We're going to focus on this plugin
quite a bit later on,
when we talk about specifics of dependencies.
But for now, let's take a look at the usage.
The usage of this plugin actually has
a lot of configuration that you can apply to it
if you choose to.
Furthermore, there's lots of examples
of what to do when you want to handle specific events
within your dependencies.
Again, this is a very useful plugin,
and one that you'll configure quite a bit.
So I encourage you to study this a little bit
as you go throughout the rest of this course.
The next one that I want to talk about
is the Enforcer Plugin.
This one is really cool if you want to make sure
that everyone in your organization
is actually following the rules
and doing the things that you say must be done.
This is set at a parent POM
that everyone in your organization consumes.
And the purpose of this is to make sure
that people are using the versions of Maven and Java
that you want them to use.
Alright, so we can take a look at this
at the Usage page here.
And you'll see that we can enforce things
like which version of Java do you want to use?
Which version of Maven?
But take a look here at line 16 of this configuration.
We can actually specify specific rules.
Now there's a really cool default rule
that if you set the level to be error
and somebody uses a plugin that you define
as something that is banned,
it will actually fail the build.
So you can restrict people from using plugins
within your organization
that you don't want them to.
There's also plugins written by other companies,
like Sumner Type for instance,
that can actually prevent security-related jars
and plugins from being used within your ecosystem
through this Enforcer Plugin.
If you're responsible for any form of security
or management within your organization,
take a look at this Enforcer Plugin,
because you may find that
it actually improves your efficiency,
and you don't really have to do anything
other than configure, once,
in the parent POM that everyone else is already using.
We'll jump back up here to the Plugin page,
and now I want to take a look at the Jarsigner.
And the Jarsigner is used to sign
your project
using a PKI encryption scheme.
And if you take a look at the Usage here,
you will see that when we configure it,
we give it a key store,
and that key store contains a certificate
that allows us to sign this artifact.
A lot of times when you're dealing with things,
especially in the security world,
you want to only use signed jars
when you run your application server.
Sometimes this is a great way to make sure
that rogue applications don't get onto your classloader,
because you only use things that are signed
by your institution.
This can actually be part of your control structure
for SOX or PCI
if you need it to be.
This Jarsigner, though it doesn't get used a lot,
when it is needed,
can really be a powerful tool,
which is why I wanted to show it to you.
Now, of all of these plugins,
the one that I have used the most,
is the Release Plugin.
The Release Plugin is a tool
that allows you to build a project
and release it.
And by releasing it, it's doing several things.
It's doing things like manipulating the version,
tagging things in SCM,
releasing it to your organization's repository,
and then preparing the project
for the next iteration.
This Release Plugin is used a lot in organizations
that are both manually tagging artifacts
as well as running things through CI/CD.
Now, there are some caveats,
especially with the way that you use Git.
If you are using Git for SCM,
you have to be real careful
about how this plugin operates
and the permissions that it needs.
But, the documentation is really clear
and shows you how to go about this process
in a typical flow.
The Release Plugin can save you a lot of repetitive,
manual work by providing those common steps
through a simple plugin.
Now there's a lot of other tools here that you can look at,
but for the purpose of this course,
these are the big ones I wanted to point out,
but the documentation is rich for all of them,
so I encourage you to take a look.